five ways to eliminate wasted ad spend
you're running tons of AD campaigns but
how many of them are actually getting
you some kind of return on your
investment according to next Cinco
digital media's waste report the numbers
on wasted ad spend are simply staggering
in q1 of 2022 an average of 40 of media
spend was wasted if you're talking about
billions of dollars here Google found
that more than 56 percent of AD
impressions are never even seen by
customers Proxima estimates 37 billion
dollars of worldwide marketing budgets
are being wasted on poor digital
performance so what can you do to make
sure that you stand out from the
majority of other advertisers out there
this sounds tricky but it's possible to
make sure that you're not displaying all
your ad budget here are five ways that
you can do to eliminate wasted ad spend
and make sure your ads actually get seen
strategy one this one's simple Target
your audience effectively 66 of
customers expect companies to understand
their unique needs and expectations from
looking at who your audience is to doing
look-alike campaigns to uploading your
email list to letting Facebook and
Google learn based on where you're
getting conversions this all helps you
target the right people the last thing
you want to do is show your ad to the
wrong customer think about your user
Persona who's your ideal customer only
show those people apps and remove
everyone else once your ads become more
and more profitable and as you scale
them up then you can expand your
audience but first have laser focus on
your ideal customer before you go more
Broad
strategy two retarget users at different
points and parts of your funnel
consumers are 70 more likely to convert
after clicking on a retargeting ad
campaign here's what I mean by this
look if someone comes to your website
let's say you're selling mattresses they
add that mattress to their checkout they
don't buy them you're devastated you
show them a remarketing ad for that
mattress so whenever they browse the web
on different sites they see ads for
guess what your mattress that you're
selling and you know what that ad also
showcases how it's five or ten percent
off they click they buy that's a great
way to generate more sales because
you're targeting the right type of
people if someone added something to
their cart but they didn't convert you
know they're interested or if you're in
B2B and someone went to one of your lead
form Pages fill it out partially or all
the way but they didn't click the submit
button because they changed their mind
remarketing them will increase your odds
of converting them
strategy 3 leverage a cross-channel
approach Brands using three or more
channels in a campaign enjoy a 287
percent higher purchase rate than those
with a single Channel campaign plus
here's a beautiful part you can take all
the learnings that you have from one
channel like Instagram or Tick Tock and
apply it to Facebook and Google and
other channels that's what we do that's
how you can run so many more ad
experiments at once and then figure out
what's working with your ideal audience
and then fine-tune your campaigns for
all the other channels or platforms and
get the most Roi strategy 4 use my ads
Creator tool go to neilpatel.com blog in
the navigation just click on tools and
then I want you to click on my ads
creator
go through the forms and the processes
it's really easy you just have to click
some buttons and boom you're off into
the race and it'll analyze all that
you're doing with your ads that are
right and wrong and tell you what to fix
and that's all it's free
strategy 5 run ads at the right time
an ad run at the right time can help you
generate sales an ad run at the wrong
time will just cost you money let's say
you're in B2B and you're trying to get
more phone calls for your call center or
your sales people and you show your ads
Monday through Sunday in essence seven
days a week but if your people are only
there to answer the phone calls from
Monday through Friday from 9 to 5 PM
well the rest of the time you're paying
money and no one's there to answer the
phone call same with b2c if you're
advertising for your store or your
company and you're not around 24 7 then
you're gonna end up losing money this is
what's called day party it's a simple
way to save money if your business is
not operating during all times
especially during Times Like the
Holidays when you should be turning off
your ads if you have nothing to sell
during those periods now if you need
help maximize the return on your ad
spend and you don't want that big
wastage check out my Ad Agency NP
digital where we won paid ad campaign of
the year and if if you have any
questions leave a comment below we're
here to help if you enjoy the video like
it share it tell people about it thank
you for watching